# Four Corners
***The Four Corners*** is made up of a tavern, an inn, a commercial building and a bakery which is actually the *face* of the building that actually houses a vast workshop that supplies the others with stuff - food, drink, laundry, drugs, etc. A reputable enterprise in Elturel, they are located on the adjacent corners of Commerce Street and Traveler’s Road, more or less on the West side of the Dock District. 

Owned and operated by the Four Corners Consortium, they have been a staple in Elturel for over twenty years.
**Four Corners Tavern** A two story tavern (and a cellar), there is a bar on both floors, with the main raucous bar on the first floor and a quieter, more reserved atmosphere on the second floor. The first floor is a typical bar that has a lite food service from the Bakery across the street. There is a separate entrance to *the Second Floor* (which is what is known by) so that patrons do not have to go through the main tavern. The Second Floor has a more extensive dining service (also from the kitchen across the street) and is a slightly more refined experience. Beneath the tavern is gaming room called *the Cellar*, which is semi-private, with access by referral (password) only. 

**Four Corners Inn** Poised between the East and West sections of the Dock District, Four Corners borders the more respectable and more seedy elements of Elturel. The cleanliness, amenities, including the proximity to the Four Corners Hall and other trading businesses, make the clientele more upclass than some other local establishments. The Inn has four floors, with a restaurant and lobby for the main Inn facing Commerce Street and the Bakery. This lobby is for guests on the top two floors, which has larger and more lavish rooms. There is a second entrance and lobby on the Traveler’s Road side, facing the Tavern, which welcomes guests for the smaller, more affordable rooms on the first and second floors. Food for the restaurant is, of course, brought over from the Bakery.

**Four Corners Bakery *(and workshop)*** The storefront of the Bakery faces Commerce Street and the Inn. The Bakery is open to the public during daylight hours and serves the expected pastries and other food that can be carried away. Despite outward appearances, the Bakery is actually as large as the other Four Corners, however most of the property is not available to the public. The three story building is comprised of an extensive kitchen that supports both the Inn, Tavern and Hall which takes up the majority of the first floor. The cellar houses an extensive kiln and smith’s forge that extends well under Commerce Street and Traveler’s Road. The second and third floors have other large crafting workshops including a tailor, carpenter, apothecary and others. While no one outside of the Four Corners business knows exactly how many enterprises are housed (and support the Consortium), there is frequently space for rent for new artisans. The Consortium makes space and materials affordable for their tenants, often becoming their *best customers* along the way.

**Four Corners Hall** The Hall has a hub of businesses and offices with a large hall that makes up much of the first floor. Boasting five floors, the top floor has the business offices for the Four Corner Consortium and a few of their trading partners. The second, third and fourth floors are filled by tenants who have leased space: many foreign trade merchants, offices for businesses whose principal owners are in other parts of Faerun, a private investigator or two, a few guilds have office space, and even a fortune teller.

Four Corners has over a hundred staff members, from operations managers, cooks, servers, concierge, craftsman and of course security personnel. 
