# Chastain - NPC Connections

## Life in Before Elturel
*No one*, not even Chastain, knows who he was before he awoke as Chastain. His accent, strange slang and *all but fabled* echo powers clearly identify him as a foreigner and he seldom speaks of his life before he arrived in Elturel. In truth, aside from his life in Kryn, he knows only that he woke in a small village near Neverwinter where everyone thought he was someone else. A place he quickly put behind him and began his new life that led him to Elturel.

## Life in Elturel 
Whoever he was, whoever he is, Chastain is recognized for his size, combat acumen and, of course, his ***manifest echo***. He has taken a job as security and manual labor for the Four Corners. His natural abilities and training have also made him a valuable resource for mercinary groups and local factions. His predeliction for doing good, for righting wrongs has drawn, has him into loose alliances with both the **Harpers** and **The Order of the Gauntlet***, for whom he enjoys taking up their causes. However, he remains standoffish about actually joining any formal organization on a permanent basis.

### Arabak - Harpers
Chastain really likes working with the Harpers. He truly embraces their goals of righting wrongs and fighting villainy. He works for the smallest fees that he can afford, _pro bono_ even when he's flush. His main contact with the Harpers is a peg-legged, one-eyed dwarf named Arabak. Arabak, a mountain dwarf, began his career coming out of his barbarian horde into civilization looking for fame and glory. Along the way he found both and a calling for doing right and a place in the Harpers. With the Harpers he also found his new voice figuratively and literally, taking up the noble profession of a bard before he retired from actively taking missions. 

Arabak lost his left leg fighting an orc invasion and his right leg below the knee to a black dragon wyrmling. Still, he continued adventuring for over a decade, armed with his trusty war pick, despite his injuries. Now he spends most of his days singing and telling his tales, his lethal war pick in hand. He can often be found in the middle of some social gathering both on the look-out for the next mission and new recruits.

### Harmon Clearsworn - Order of the Gauntlet
A coalition of paladins, clerics, warriors, knights and heroes, the Order of the Gauntlet are dedicated to eradication of evil in Faerun. While Chastain whole-heartedly agrees with their mission, he is more of a soldier than a zealot, and is less enthusiastic about the chaste devotions that drive their cause. Still they often tilt their weapons at intimidating opponents and have more generous purses than the Harpers, both things Chastain likes. Chastain befriended Vicar Harmon Clearsworn from the Order, who has made it his personal mission to recruit the hero into the Order.

Harmon Clearsworn was born into the service of Tyr, he grew up as an acolyte in the parish in Elturel. A big strapping lad, as a young man he was initially trained as a warrior, but they found that his disposition and devotion drew him to the clergy. Still, a skilled fighter, his early weapons training made him a fierce opponent of the forces of darkness. Also a talented healer, Clearsworn has spent many years hunting down evil wherever the Order of the Gauntlet finds it. Clearsworn and Chastain have a lot in common and he sees the warrior as a lost brother, needing to be gently brought back into the fold.

### Ganthet
Even before he awoke in Faerun, Chastain had begun to dread sleeping. Sleeping led to dreaming where he had started to believe that he was seeing the lives of his other temporals, his *echos* and that was becoming unbearable. 

When he woke up in Faerun he has done everything he can to stay awake. Fighting sleep like he does evil, has led him to make some strange contacts and questionable choices. He has resorted to everything from meditation to herbal folk remedies to illicit drugs and sometimes, when he could afford it, even magic. His main contact for the some of his most exotic concoctions have come from a colorful, maybe even notorious scoundrel, Ganthet.

Ganthet is a literal *guy who knows a guy*, a *Mr. Fixit*, *the go-to-guy* around town; or at least one of them who lurks around Four Corners. A regular in the tavern, Ganthet was drawn to Chastain because of his size and reputation: a sellsword with a heart of gold. Initially he found that the big lug was difficult to get on the *payroll*, but could be swayed by a really good (sad) story or lost cause. Over time he learned about Chastain’s little sleep aversion and began helping him out by supplying him with whatever he could, when he could. Often the two of them work in trade, with Chastain helping the rogue out on his escapades or helping one of his other friends (*clients*). While Ganthet has sometimes been known to walk the middle of the road, he is well aware of Chastain’s straight & narrow path, and is careful to make sure that his work with the Echo Knight is within the warrior’s comfort zone.
