# Barbarian Paths

## Primal Path
At 3rd level, you choose a path that shapes the nature of your rage. The Path of the Berserker is detailed at the end of the class description, and additional primal paths are available in other sources. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 10th, and 14th levels.

### Path of the Ancesteral Guardian

Some barbarians hail from cultures that revere their ancestors. These tribes teach that the warriors of the past linger in the world as mighty spirits, who can guide and protect the living. When a barbarian who follows this path rages, the barbarian contacts the spirit world and calls on these guardian spirits for aid.

Barbarians who draw on their ancestral guardians can better fight to protect their tribes and their allies. In order to cement ties to their ancestral guardians, barbarians who follow this path cover themselves in elaborate tattoos that celebrate their ancestors’ deeds. These tattoos tell sagas of victories against terrible monsters and other fearsome rivals. *Source: Xanathar's Guide to Everything*

>**Path Features***<br>**Ancestral Protectors**<br>Starting when you choose this path at 3rd level, spectral warriors appear when you enter your rage. While you’re raging, the first creature you hit with an attack on your turn becomes the target of the warriors, which hinder its attacks. Until the start of your next turn, that target has disadvantage on any attack roll that isn't against you, and when the target hits a creature other than you with an attack, that creature has resistance to the damage of the target’s attacks.<br><br>**Spirit Shield**<br>Beginning at 6th level, the guardian spirits that aid you can provide supernatural protection to those you defend. If you are raging and a creature you can see within 30 feet of you takes damage, you can use your reaction to reduce that damage by 2d6. When you reach certain levels in this class, you can reduce the damage by more: by 3d6 at 10th level and by 4d6 at 14th level.<br><br>**Consult Spirits**<br>At 10th level, you gain the ability to consult with your ancestral spirits. When you do so, you cast the Augury or Clairvoyance spell, without using a spell slot or material components. Rather than creating a spherical sensor, this use of Clairvoyance invisibly summons one of your ancestral spirits to the chosen location. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for these spells. After you cast either spell in this way, you can’t use this feature again until you finish a short or long rest.<br><br>**Vengeful Ancestors**At 14th level, your ancestral spirits grow powerful enough to retaliate. When you use your Spirit Shield to reduce the damage of an attack, the attacker takes an amount of force damage that your Spirit Shield prevents.<br><br><br>[Reference: dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:ancestral-guardian)

## Path of the Battleranger
Known as Kuldjargh (literally "axe idiot") in Dwarvish, battleragers are dwarf followers of the gods of war and take the Path of the Battlerager. They specialize in wearing bulky, spiked armor and throwing themselves into combat, striking with their body itself and giving themselves over to the fury of battle. *Source: Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide*

**Restriction: *Typically* Dwarves Only**
Only dwarves can follow the Path of the Battlerager. The battlerager fills a particular niche in dwarven society and culture.

If you are not a dwarf, but can explain why this path applies to your barbarian, you can use it.

>**Battlerager Armor**<br>When you choose this path at 3rd level, you gain the ability to use spiked armor as a weapon.<br>While you are wearing spiked armor and are raging, you can use a bonus action to make one melee weapon attack with your armor spikes against a target within 5 feet of you. If the attack hits, the spikes deal 1d4 piercing damage. You use your Strength modifier for the attack and damage rolls.<br>Additionally, when you use the Attack action to grapple a creature, the target takes 3 piercing damage if your grapple check succeeds.<br><br>**Reckless Abandon**<br>Beginning at 6th level, when you use Reckless Attack while raging, you also gain temporary hit points equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum of 1). They vanish if any of them are left when your rage ends.<br><br>**Battlerager Charge**<br>Beginning at 10th level, you can take the Dash action as a bonus action while you are raging.<br><br>**Spiked Retribution**<br>Starting at 14th level, when a creature within 5 feet of you hits you with a melee attack, the attacker takes 3 piercing damage if you are raging, aren't incapacitated, and are wearing spiked armor.<br><br><br>[Reference: dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:battlerager)


### Path of the Beast

Barbarians who walk the Path of the Beast draw their rage from a bestial spark burning within their souls. That beast bursts forth in the throes of rage, physically transforming the barbarian.

Such a barbarian might be inhabited by a primal spirit or be descended from shape-shifters. You can choose the origin of your feral might or determine it by rolling on the Origin of the Beast table. *Source: Tasha's Cauldron of Everything*

>**Origin of the Beast Table**<br>1. One of your parents is a lycanthrope, and you've inherited some of their curse.<br>2. You are descended from an archdruid and inherited the ability to partially change shape.<br> 3. A fey spirit gifted you with the ability to adopt different bestial aspects.<br> 4. An ancient animal spirit dwells within you, allowing you to walk this path.

Remember **YOU** can create your own Beast Origin also

>**Path Features**<br>**Form of the Beast**<br>Starting when you choose this path at 3rd level, when you enter your rage, you can transform, revealing the bestial power within you. Until the rage ends, you manifest a natural weapon. It counts as a simple melee weapon for you, and you add your Strength modifier to the attack and damage rolls when you attack with it, as normal. You choose the weapon’s form each time you rage:<br> 1. **Bite.** Your mouth transforms into a bestial muzzle or great mandibles (your choice). It deals 1d8 piercing damage on a hit. Once on each of your turns when you damage a creature with this bite, you regain a number of hit points equal to your proficiency bonus, provided you have less than half your hit points when you hit.<br> 2. **Claws.** Each of your hands transforms into a claw, which you can use as a weapon if it’s empty. It deals 1d6 slashing damage on a hit. Once on each of your turns when you attack with a claw using the Attack action, you can make one additional claw attack as part of the same action.<br> 3. **Tail.** You grow a lashing, spiny tail, which deals 1d8 piercing damage on a hit and has the reach property. If a creature you can see within 10 feet of you hits you with an attack roll, you can use your reaction to swipe your tail and roll a d8, applying a bonus to your AC equal to the number rolled, potentially causing the attack to miss you.<br><br>**Bestial Soul**<br>Beginning at 6th level, the feral power within you increases, causing the natural weapons of your Form of the Beast to count as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage. You can also alter your form to help you adapt to your surroundings. When you finish a short or long rest, choose one of the following benefits, which lasts until you finish a short or long rest:<br> * You gain a swimming speed equal to your walking speed, and you can breathe underwater.<br> * You gain a climbing speed equal to your walking speed, and you can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.<br> * When you jump, you can make a Strength (Athletics) check and extend your jump by a number of feet equal to the check’s total. You can make this special check only once per turn.<br><br>**Infectious Fury**<br>At 10th level, when you hit a creature with your natural weapons while you are raging, the beast within you can curse your target with rabid fury. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency bonus) or suffer one of the following effects (your choice):<br> * The target must use its reaction to make a melee attack against another creature of your choice that you can see.
<br> *Target takes 2d12 psychic damage.<br>You can use this feature a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.<br><br>**Call the Hunt**<br>At 14th level, the beast within you grows so powerful that you can spread its ferocity to others and gain resilience from them joining your hunt. When you enter your rage, you can choose a number of other willing creatures you can see within 30 feet of you equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum of one creature). You gain 5 temporary hit points for each creature that accepts this feature. Until the rage ends, the chosen creatures can use the following benefit once on each of their turns: when the creature hits a target with an attack roll and deals damage to it, the creature can roll a d6 and gain a bonus to the damage equal to the number rolled.<br>You can use this feature a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.<br><br><br>[Reference: dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:beast)


### Path of the Beserker

For some barbarians, rage is a means to an end – that end being violence. The Path of the Berserker is a path of untrammeled fury, slick with blood. As you enter the berserker's rage, you thrill in the chaos of battle, heedless of your own health or well-being. *Source: Player's Handbook*

>**Path Features**<br>**Frenzy**<br>Starting when you choose this path at 3rd level, you can go into a frenzy when you rage. If you do so, for the duration of your rage you can make a single melee weapon attack as a bonus action on each of your turns after this one. When your rage ends, you suffer one level of exhaustion.<br><br>**Mindless Rage**<br>Beginning at 6th level, you can't be charmed or frightened while raging. If you are charmed or frightened when you enter your rage, the effect is suspended for the duration of the rage.<br><br>**Intimidating Presence**<br>Beginning at 10th level, you can use your action to frighten someone with your menacing presence. When you do so, choose one creature that you can see within 30 feet of you. If the creature can see or hear you, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) or be frightened of you until the end of your next turn. On subsequent turns, you can use your action to extend the duration of this effect on the frightened creature until the end of your next turn. This effect ends if the creature ends its turn out of line of sight or more than 60 feet away from you.<br>If the creature succeeds on its saving throw, you can't use this feature on that creature again for 24 hours.<br><br>**Retaliation**<br>Starting at 14th level, when you take damage from a creature that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to make a melee weapon attack against that creature.<br><br><br>[Reference: dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:berserker)


### Path of the Storm Herald
Typical barbarians harbor a fury that dwells within. Their rage grants them superior strength, durability, and speed. Barbarians who follow the Path of the Storm Herald learn instead to transform their rage into a mantle of primal magic that swirls around them. When in a fury, a barbarian of this path taps into nature to create powerful, magical effects.

Storm heralds are typically elite champions who train alongside druids, rangers, and others sworn to protect the natural realm. Other storm heralds hone their craft in elite lodges founded in regions wracked by storms, in the frozen reaches at the world’s end, or deep in the hottest deserts. *Source: Xanathar's Guide to Everything*

>**Path Features**<br>**Storm Aura**<br>When you select this path at 3rd level, you emanate a stormy, magical aura while you rage. The aura extends 10 feet from you in every direction, but not through total cover.<br>Your aura has an effect that activates when you enter your rage, and you can activate the effect again on each of your turns as a bonus action. Choose desert, sea, or tundra. Your aura's effect depends on that chosen environment, as detailed below. You can change your environment choice whenever you gain a level in this class.<br>If your aura's effects require a saving throw, the DC equals 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier.<br>**Desert.** When this effect is activated, all other creatures in your aura take 2 fire damage each. The damage increases when you reach certain levels in this class, increasing to 3 at 5th level, 4 at 10th level, 5 at 15th level, and 6 at 20th level.<br>**Sea.** When this effect is activated, you can choose one other creature you can see in your aura. The target must make a Dexterity saving throw. The target takes 1d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The damage increases when you reach certain levels in this class, increasing to 2d6 at 10th level, 3d6 at 15th level, and 4d6 at 20th level.<br>**Tundra.** When this effect is activated, each creature of your choice in your aura gains 2 temporary hit points, as icy spirits inure it to suffering. The temporary hit points increase when you reach certain levels in this class, increasing to 3 at 5th level, 4 at 10th level, 5 at 15th level, and 6 at 20th level.<br><br>**Storm Soul**<br>At 6th level, the storm grants you benefits even when your aura isn't active. The benefits are based on the environment you chose for your Storm Aura.<br>**Desert.** You gain resistance to fire damage, and you don’t suffer the effects of extreme heat, as described in the Dungeon Master's Guide. Moreover, as an action, you can touch a flammable object that isn't being worn or carried by anyone else and set it on fire.<br>**Sea.** You gain resistance to lightning damage, and you can breathe underwater. You also gain a swimming speed of 30 feet.<br>**Tundra.** You gain resistance to cold damage, and you don’t suffer the effects of extreme cold, as described in the Dungeon Master's Guide. Moreover, as an action, you can touch water and turn a 5-foot cube of it into ice, which melts after 1 minute. This action fails if a creature is in the cube.<br><br>**Shielding Storm**<br>At 10th level, you learn to use your mastery of the storm to protect others. Each creature of your choice has the damage resistance you gained from the Storm Soul feature while the creature is in your Storm Aura.<br><br>**Raging Storm**<br>At 14th level, the power of the storm you channel grows mightier, lashing out at your foes. The effect is based on the environment you chose for your Storm Aura.<br>**Desert.** Immediately after a creature in your aura hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to force that creature to make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes fire damage equal to your Barbarian level.<br>**Sea.** When you hit a creature in your aura with an attack, you can use your reaction to force that creature to make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is knocked prone, as if struck by a wave.<br>**Tundra.** Whenever the effect of your Storm Aura is activated, you can choose one creature you can see in the aura. That creature must succeed on a Strength saving throw, or its speed is reduced to 0 until the start of your next turn, as magical frost covers it.<br><br><br>[Link to details at dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:storm-herald)

### Path of the Totem Warrior
The Path of the Totem Warrior is a spiritual journey, as the barbarian accepts a spirit animal as guide, protector, and inspiration. In battle, your totem spirit fills you with supernatural might, adding magical fuel to your barbarian rage.

Most barbarian tribes consider a totem animal to be kin to a particular clan. In such cases, it is unusual for an individual to have more than one totem animal spirit, though exceptions exist. *Source: Player's Handbook*

>**Path Features**Spirit Seeker<br><br>Totem Spirit<br><br>Aspect of the Beast<br><br>Spirit Walker<br><br>Totemic Attunement

[Link to details at dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:totem-warrior)

### Path of Wild Magic
Many places in the multiverse abound with beauty, intense emotion, and rampant magic; the Feywild, the Upper Planes, and other realms of supernatural power radiate with such forces and can profoundly influence people. As folk of deep feeling, barbarians are especially susceptible to these wild influences, with some barbarians being transformed by the magic. These magic-suffused barbarians walk the Path of Wild Magic. Elf, tiefling, aasimar, and genasi barbarians often seek this path, eager to manifest the otherworldly magic of their ancestors. *Source: Tasha's Cauldron of Everything*

>**Path Features*** Magic Awareness<br><br>Wild Surge<br><br>Bolstering Magic<br><br>Unstable Backlash<br><br>Controlled Surge


[Link to details at dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:wild-magic)


### Path of the Zealot

Some deities inspire their followers to pitch themselves into a ferocious battle fury. These barbarians are zealots – warriors who channel their rage into powerful displays of divine power.

A variety of gods across the worlds of D&D inspire their followers to embrace this path. Tempus from the Forgotten Realms and Hextor and Erythnul of Greyhawk are all prime examples. In general, the gods who inspire zealots are deities of combat, destruction, and violence. Not all are evil, but few are good. *Source: Xanathar's Guide to Everything*

>**Path Features*** Divine Fury<br><br>Warrior of the Gods<br><br>Fanatical Focus<br><br>Zealous Presence<br><br>Rage Beyond Death


[Link to details at dnd5e.wikidot](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:zealot)




>[The Barbarian Class, *dnd5e.wikidot*](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/#toc7)
